### This Design Document is not intended to be a technical breakdown of how Recycler Salvage will work. It is intended to outline the core fundamentals of how this gameplay flow will work.

| Author(s) | Designer(s) |
| --------- | ----------- |
| CobaltBox | CobaltBox   |

## The Main Idea
The main idea behind Recycler Salvage is to add onto the current systems that Salvage already provides, being the VGRoid and the Salvage Magnet respectively. These two systems are currently two partial loops with no defined reward, and as such, both have flaws that could be solved by adding incentives to them.

The VGRoid has the issue of having major loot and resources for Salvage to loot, however, the reward of actually obtaining it outside of the enjoyment of the combat loop within the main dungeon is - in my eyes at least - negative-sum for the player. They gain no tangible rewards outside of having special items from the VGRoid that have major round impact for the most part, and will eventually run out of time/loot to interact with this flow with no real substantial gain over the course of the round. This in turn de-incentivizes a salvager to do anything extra, and as such, will cause the player to do the bare minimum, then come back and roleplay the rest of the round. For those players who _want_ to interact with this part of Salvage more, VGRoid in this case simply does not have enough. Parts of this flow also get further de-incentivized by the other loop: the Salvage Magnet.

The Salvage Magnet shares similar problems, but shows different symptoms. Currently, Salvage Magnet pulls have two types of wrecks: mining asteroids, and wrecks. Wrecks provide random items for recycling, which currently only serves the purpose of materials. These materials do help the station, but does not in any way benefit the player outside of having work to do; ultimately resulting in more negative-sum gameplay. The same goes for mining, but since the VGRoid also has plenty of mining already, asteroid mining in the eyes of a player will look like a weaker but faster alternative that is also safer: a clear choice that will make them steer away from the VGRoid harder. The Bounty Board is an attempt at making the Salvage Magnet come closer to zero-sum gameplay, rewarding salvagers and the Cargo department as a whole with cash, but doesn't solve the issue of running out of things to do after a few pulls of the magnet. At the point where you're at two magnet pulls, you will most likely have enough resources to sustain the station for the rest of the round, running into the issue of "not having constant rewards" again.

The huge takeaway from closely inspecting the systems of Salvage as two separate loops reveals a very simple but shockingly hard issue to solve: Salvage does not have a reoccurring gameplay loop that smoothly blends mining and recycling in a way that is rewarding for both the department and player. It is mostly favored for the department in this case; as the player as an individual usually loses more for the benefit of the station, usually in the form of combat for no real upgrades/progression throughout the round. Salvage at the end of the day picks up their equipment from their lockers, picks one loop to explore, and then sticks with it until self-sustainability is achieved, and leaves the player with not much afterwards to interact with. Cargo can end up buying most materials Salvage can also acquire with the cash they generate from mining, which also makes resource grinding from wrecks almost obsolete. Death can also be a major punishment for risk of round-removal, which also removes them from the gameplay loop entirely. Ultimately, a lot of small but contributing detracting factors that lead to other - usually better options - is the main reason why Salvage currently results in largely negative-sum gameplay.

## How do we solve negative-sum gameplay in Salvage?
Recycler Salvage introduces the concept of adding a rewards system for acquiring materials, based on milestone markers that are per-material and has increasing goals per milestone. This is intended to replace the current Bounty Board, as that system currently has no rewards for the player and only has departmental rewards. This idea could also be adapted to the Mining side as well, similar to how Lavaland handles Mining Points.

The main way Recycler Salvage does this is through a new terminal: the Recycling Terminal - a special Salvage terminal that is able to be linked to any recycler and track it's own statistics in a separate manifest, giving cash rewards and various other unlockable items in the Salvage Vendor. It is a repeatable gameplay flow as well, allowing for scaling rewards that are (potentially) exponential the more players interact with the loop that already exists. This rewards them with a virtual currency, akin to Science's research points that allows them to obtain items from the Salvage Vendor, which holds tangible in-round progression for Salvage as a role and giving them an incentive to continue salvaging.

## Why build off of the current Salvage system?
A main reason why Recycle Salvage is intended to build off of pre-existing ideas is because it is supposed to be a fundamental glue that holds two loops together as separate entities with one solution. Of course, this will not solve every issue present in Salvage; that is not the intent of this new system. It is to properly add new rewards and incentives for already existing systems that work by themselves, but not overhaul what is already present by adding a true positive reward for all the lost resources accumulated over a salvage trip. Salvage is already perceived as a "hands off, off station" role in the eyes of many players, and putting a value on a life of a salvager mechanically via rewards that they can obtain is a good way to make the role not only fun for the players, but also for the overall departmental benefit on station.

This idea of building off the current system is also a little compromise of players who like the current systems, but do not find much reason to in the current state - and the players who do not like the current systems and want to see Salvage reworked. Salvage is in a bit of a design limbo, where it is hard to balance off-station gameplay with roleplay opportunities that allow people to tell stories in a fluent manner. At the end of the day, I believe that Salvage is a role that should stay around, but requires some form of structure and reasons to continue playing in this role, which is why I used a lot of game-theory terms such as negative-sum.

## Final Remarks
This will not be long at all, so it will be bullet-pointed to things I may have thought of or points that might stick out. This is not a complete list.

- Yes, there will be a shortage of items to acquire, but this is not Recycle Salvage's inherent problem. This can be fixed with adding more gadgets that Salvage can play around with.
- I did not mention the Mining loop of Recycle Salvage a lot, but that's because the VGRoid does not serve as much of a dungeon as is. It might have the effect of making the choice to pull magnet asteroids stronger, considering it is less riskier, and VGRoid is a much more committal option. Death is _strongly_ punishing compared to asteroid mining if you do not have other crewmates.
- "What if I run out of rewards?" you may ask. The repeatable, instant cash rewards at every milestone should serve as a good manners type of "I want to continue mining", and that is on the player at the end of the day. You do not have to participate past the bare minimum, but you will be handsomely rewarded for doing so (in the respect of your co-workers). This also goes hand in hand with the "running out of gadgets" problem.
- Yes, all materials are not made equal in rarity and quantity. The technical document intends to outline how the system will handle this in full detail, but if you want a straight to the point and simple answer: Recycle Salvage will have an editable list that gets generated on map initialization defined from prototypes in YAML.
- The Quartermaster will have a spare board in their locker, just like any other job-essential board.